# identifying_pneumonia_by_x-ray_images_using_convnet
2.56 million people died from pneumonia in 2017. Almost a third of all victims were children younger than 5 years, it is the leading cause of death for children under 5.  Pneumonia is an infection of the tiny air sacs of the lungs, called alveoli. In a person with pneumonia the alveoli are filled with pus and fluid, which makes breathing painful and reduces the oxygen intake. Pneumonia is caused by a number of different infectious agents, including viruses, bacteria and fungi. In this project, I will train a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) to automatically classify chest X-rays as either 'NORMAL' or 'PNEUMONIA' showcasing the power of deep learning in the medical domain.

### Images from Human Subjects
<div><div><div data-testid="markdown" class="spacing-tight__2Gp7GTqG0TykPQ18OnUOVt markdown__1eeYJ4WPKUcvX_LDDGJR12 body__3bSqqzbent-J_gmFLtFRzM"><p class="p__1qg33Igem5pAgn4kPMirjw">We will be using the <a href="https://www.cell.com/cell/fulltext/S0092-8674(18)30154-5" target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="gamut-15hd59n-Anchor e14vpv2g0">Chest X-Ray (Pneumonia) dataset</a>: approximately 6000 chest x-rays, each annotated as ‘NORMAL’ or ‘PNEUMONIA.’</p>
</div></div></div>
Chest X-ray images (anterior-posterior) were selected from retrospective cohorts of pediatric patients of one to five years old from Guangzhou Women and Children’s Medical Center, Guangzhou. All chest X-ray imaging was performed as part of patients’ routine clinical care. Institutional Review Board (IRB)/Ethics Committee approvals were obtained. The work was conducted in a manner compliant with the United States Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) and was adherent to the tenets of the Declaration of Helsinki.
Chest X-ray examinations were interpreted to confirm a diagnosis, and referral decisions were made thereafter (“urgent referral” for diagnoses of bacterial pneumonia, “supportive care” for viral pneumonia, and “observation only” for normal).
For the analysis of chest X-ray images, all chest radiographs were initially screened for quality control by removing all low quality or unreadable scans. The diagnoses for the images were then graded by two expert physicians before being cleared for training the AI system. In order to account for any grading errors, the evaluation set was also checked by a third expert .
